[docs] Add a comparison to graphql-java (#871)
ExpediaGroup/graphql-kotlin: docs/graphql-java-comparison.md

---
id: graphql-java-comparison
title: GraphQL Java Comparison
---

[graphql-java](https://graphql-java.com/) is one of the most popular JVM based GraphQL implemenations. GraphQL Kotlin is
built on top of `grahpql-java` as it can be easily extended with additional functionality and this implementation
has been used and tested by many users.

### GraphQL Java Schema

The most common way to create the schema in `graphql-java` is to first manually write the SDL file:

```graphql
schema {
    query: Query
}

type Query {
    bookById(id: ID): Book
}

type Book {
    id: ID!
    name: String!
    pageCount: Int!
    author: Author
}

type Author {
    id: ID!
    firstName: String!
    lastName: String!
}
```

Then write the runtime code that matches this schema to build the `GraphQLSchema` object.

```kotlin
class GraphQLDataFetchers {

>     private val books: List<Map<String, String>> = booksFromDB()

Reviewer: pretty sure we should be using data classes here instead of raw maps?

---
id: graphql-java-comparison
title: GraphQL Java Comparison
---

[graphql-java](https://graphql-java.com/) is one of the more popular JVM based GraphQL implemenations. GraphQL Kotlin is

> built on top of `grahpql-java` as there are many parts of the GraphQL specification that are trivial and this implemenatation

Reviewer: Unsure if I would  call the reason why we use it as `trivial pieces of implementation` so maybe we should rephrase that. I'm thinking maybe we should mention rewrite that sentence as

```suggestion
built on top of `grahpql-java` as it can be easily extended with additional functionality and this implementation
```

has been used and tested by many users.

### GraphQL Java Schema

The most common way to create the schema in `graphql-java` is to first manually write the SDL file:

```graphql
schema {
    query: Query
}

type Query {
    bookById(id: ID): Book
}

type Book {
    id: ID!
    name: String!
    pageCount: Int!
    author: Author
}

type Author {
    id: ID!
    firstName: String!
    lastName: String!
}
```

Then write the runtime code that matches this schema to build the `GraphQLSchema` object.

> ```java

Reviewer: do we want to change this example to Kotlin (so it is easier to compare vs plain java)?

Author: Showing it in java makes it look more verbose intentionally 😜

Author: This comes from this example: https://www.graphql-java.com/tutorials/getting-started-with-spring-boot/

    private static List<Map<String, String>> books = booksFromDB();
    private static List<Map<String, String>> authors = authorsFromDB();

    public DataFetcher getBookByIdDataFetcher() {
        return dataFetchingEnvironment -> {
            String bookId = dataFetchingEnvironment.getArgument("id");
            return books
                    .stream()
                    .filter(book -> book.get("id").equals(bookId))
                    .findFirst()
                    .orElse(null);
        };
    }

    public DataFetcher getAuthorDataFetcher() {
        return dataFetchingEnvironment -> {
            Map<String,String> book = dataFetchingEnvironment.getSource();
            String authorId = book.get("authorId");
            return authors
                    .stream()
                    .filter(author -> author.get("id").equals(authorId))
                    .findFirst()
                    .orElse(null);
        };
    }

    public DataFetcher getPageCountDataFetcher() {
        return dataFetchingEnvironment -> {
            Map<String,String> book = dataFetchingEnvironment.getSource();
            return book.get("totalPages");
        };
    }
}
```

> This means that there are two sources-of-truth for your schema and changes in either have to be reflected in both locations.

Reviewer 2: "sources of truth", no hyphens

(Github's not letting me edit directly for some reason...)

As your schema scales to hundreds of types and many different resolvers, it can get more difficult to track what code needs to be changed if you want to add a new field,

> deprecated or delete an existing one, or fix a bug in the resolver code.

Reviewer 2: "deprecate", no 'd' at the end
